---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-24T21:20:15.145Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-24T21:19:42.262Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-24-05ab08ec-ee98-4682-b4b0-85bdbfd24c54.md
published: true
url: 05ab08ec-ee98-4682-b4b0-85bdbfd24c54/index.html
_type: Article

---
I love the scientific processes, the scientific method.  Human's ability to use the scientific method has served humans quit well on net. Case studies are an important technique often use in the scientific method.  So "I'm into" case studies which are part of science.  

The scientific method involves proposing a theory to explain something, and then earnestly trying to find flaws in the theory via further theorizing or empirical research. Most of the "science" referred to in the news is referring someone proposing a theory, and then feverously trying to find those items of empirical data which support the theory, and defame anyone who dares challenge it.

Zuckerberg's

declaration of a new human right will very likely be very 

lucrative

to Facebook's (and therefore his) economic viability.  He can afford to get people to say whatever he wants in his microphone.  And they will know that if they want to get hired they need to say what he wants them to say.  

I know of no reason to suspect 

Zuckerberg knows much of anything about human rights.  Human rights are of utmost importance.  Watering down legitimate human rights with relatively trivial "human rights"

diminishes

them - makes them less 

respectable

.  The world will become a better place sooner if human rights become more universally respected.  Watering them down will make them less 

respectable

. I'd really urge anyone who does not know a great deal about human rights not to go around spouting about them - unless they are quoting people who do.

"

It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker that we expect our dinner, but from their regard to their own interest."