---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-04-02T20:54:09.685Z'
dateModified: '2016-04-02T20:53:58.562Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-04-02-89d33fb6-d2c7-455d-89b6-e0b22102bfee.md
published: true
url: 89d33fb6-d2c7-455d-89b6-e0b22102bfee/index.html
_type: Article

---
Trump says "we are getting killed with free trade" and he threatens to slap a 45% tariff on countries that "cheat" with trade policies. Some people apparently believe this makes sense. I don't get it. \[BTW: Trump also says we do not manufacture anything anymore and our exports are being killed. That is so completely false it is hardly worthy of comment, e.g., US total goods exports are about 50% higher today than what they were 10 years ago. The US ranks third in the world as an exporter with less than ½ the population of \#2 (Europe), and less than ¼ of the population of \#1 (China) -- we export 93% as much as Europe and 70% as much as China.\]

As Trump uses the term, "cheat" means other countries with workers who are willing to produce stuff we need or want for less pay than our workers demand, and/or they are adopting policies which allow their producers to deliver goods and services to us for less money than it would cost us to make it ourselves. He correctly points out that a result of this "cheating" is businesses choose not to manufacture those things here because they would lose money - the sales price would be below the cost of production. Trumps claim is that we would have more jobs if we could put a stop to this "cheating."

So how does Trump propose to stop the "cheating?" Negotiate better trade deals. The leverage he intends to us is the threat of a 45% tariff on goods and services imported from "cheaters." The idea is that if the cost to American consumers were to increase by 45% on imported stuff, then US companies could afford to pay US workers enough to make it here. Jobs! But wait, he is saying that he is willing to raise consumer prices by 45% on trillions of dollars of annual imports so that US companies can sell their products at those higher prices. When reporters try to get Trump to explain how those vastly increased consumer prices for so much of what we buy \[realize that much of our imports are component parts for things manufactured here\] won't "kill" the economy (kill jobs), and make Americans much poorer because everything they buy would be so much more expensive, Trump avoids the reality of the havoc he is proposing to wreak on our economy by saying, "it will never happen."

Well. What does that mean? That means he has no intention of actually imposing a 45% tax on imports from "cheating" countries -- it's just a "credible" threat. Claiming to be an "expert negotiator," Trump explains that in order to get concessions from your adversary, you must have a credible threat which will hurt your adversary if implemented. As a Las Vegas mogul you would think that he would know that you shouldn't "tell" your hand. He's blabbing everywhere that his trump card is a tariff that "will never happen." Of course, unlike the reporters who know even less about international trade than Trump does, the Chinese will lean back and smile as Trump holds a gun to his head and threatens to pull the trigger (which will destroy his own country's economy) if the Chinese don't back off. We can rest assured the Chinese know a gun filled with blanks when they see one.

In the short run, there are winners and losers in making trade freer. The clear winners are those companies who are enabled to sell their goods at unnecessarily high prices. Those companies' workers are winners in the short run to the extent they keep their jobs while the protection is in place, the companies don't automate their jobs, their products remain popular, their company is not otherwise regulated or taxed out of business, etc. On the other hand, the prices of everything they buy will be higher on both those workers and their fellow Americans. The economy will slow which will cause other people to lose their jobs. America will be poorer, but, at least, people like Trump get elected by spouting this nonsense. In the long run, a poorer America does not bode well for anyone, including those "winning" workers' future or the future of their children and grandchildren.

Trump's number one claim for deserving the presidency is his negotiating skills. To earn the wealth he has he must have negotiating skills which are good in a business to business context. He appears to be very good in those shallow waters. When it comes to the issues he would face as president, he is clearly out of his depth.